Alright in this video we are going to
take a look at using ResponseStatus. The
ResponseStatus annotation control back
the HTTP response status that Spring MVC
is going to return for us. So I've
written a test here so I'm introducing
a new class, NotFoundException. It
extends RuntimeException and I didn't
override all the constructors for it,
just a common ones I would probably use.
No arcs constructor, pass a message
constructor then message and Throwable.
So that's probably going to be good
enough for our use cases here and of
course I have gone in and created a test
for that and what we want to do is test
when the Optional comes back is empty. So
that's going to be from the Spring Data
JPA repository when we go in and find
by ID we want to return back an empty
Optional. And you can see here on line 61,
I've annotated the test and I'm
using the JUnit expected to expect back
and NotFoundException. And that that's
a specific class, that's a custom
exception that we just wrote and I did
put that in the exceptions package. So
something that I like to do is keep
things neat and tidy inside of this. You
could argue about where that exception
actually lives. I prefer to use a
exceptions package. It makes sense when
you're looking for custom exceptions to
have a specific package for those to me.
So let's go ahead and I'll run this test
and then we'll examine the code because
I do have this working at this point. So
we are Green on the test and let's take
a quick look at the implementation there. So on line 49, we were throwing a Runtime
Exception and now I've counted that out
and now we're throwing our own
custom exception. Now I do have the
ResponseStatus commented out here. So
when I come into my test, I am going to
be looking for a status of isNot
Found. So let's go ahead and run that now. That's a nice little feature inside of
IntelliJ that they recently added
where you can run the test right from
the gutter and we can see that this is
not behaving properly. So when I
reintroduce this annotation, you can see that
now I will have a passing test. Okay so
what we want to do now, so let's close
this out and let's go ahead and run our
application and come down here to Spring
recipe application. That's a Spring Boot
and we'll start this up and let's
demonstrate this. So you can see we are
up and running and let's go ahead and
refresh this.
So our recipe is coming up. So now let's
go over to, I will do like ID 4 which we
know is not there in the database. And
now you can see that we are getting that
back ResponseStatus is now 404. So this
is a generic error page that's being
generated by Spring Boot and let's just
demonstrate. If we take this annotation
off the class, and I'm going to force a
build here so you can see the Spring
Boot developer tools kick in and we are
back up and running. Let's go ahead and
refresh this again and now we can see
that we get a 500 error. So we are in
fact changing that HTTP status code
that's coming back to the browser. Now
we will re-enable that real quick. And we will force a build, refresh that. I want to show this
in the Developer tools as well. Let's go
and take a look at the Network. So now
inside of Developer Tools on Chrome, we
can see that we are getting back a 404
error coming back from the server. But we
do get this HTML returned as well. So
this allows us to see both the error
message on the web page but also we
did a get and got a 404 back and from
the server. Let's come back over here
and I am going to run all the tests and
while that's running we'll do a real
quick recap. You can see our body of
tests are growing. So we did add in a new
NotFoundException that just extends
the RuntimeException and we are
annotating that with ResponseStatus. And
then in our service implementation,
we change to throw that exception type and that's what's
going to kick in the 404 coming back. And
you can see now that we are up to 67
tests in this project and they are all
passing. So I am going to go ahead and
commit this and Git branch of
response - status. So if you need to
check it out you can see it.